SSD1
Introduction to Information Systems
This course introduces students to fundamental concepts 
and skills of software development. Students learn how 
software is written, what its fundamental building blocks 
are, and how multiple pieces of software cooperate to make 
the Web work. Students learn to create web pages in HTML 
and applets in Java. 

SSD2
Introduction to Computer Systems
This course introduces students to the fundamentals of 
using and maintaining computer systems in an Internet 
environment. The basic components and functions of the 
computer and the network are introduced, along with tools 
and procedures for their operation and maintenance. 

SSD3
Object-Oriented Programming and Design
This course introduces students to problem solving by 
means of object-oriented design and implementation. 
Emphasis is on problem analysis and solution design, 
documentation and implementation. Students use commercial 
software libraries, and create software projects. 
Programming assignments are carried out in Java. 

SSD4
User-Centered Design and Testing
This course focuses on human-computer interaction teaching 
basic skills in designing, creating, and evaluating user 
interfaces. Students learn how to design usable, 
human-friendly user interfaces using a rapid-prototyping 
programming language. They also learn how to evaluate 
interfaces empirically with two usability tools. Visual 
Basic is used in programming assignments. 

SSD5
Data Structures and Algorithms
This course focuses on understanding the dependence of 
execution time, bandwidth and memory requirements on 
the data structures and algorithms chosen. Students 
learn to reason informally about algorithm and data 
structure correctness and complexity. Primary emphasis 
is given to intelligent selection of algorithms and 
representations. Programming assignments use C++ and the 
Standard Template Library. 

SSD6
System-Level Programming
This course provides students with a programmer's view 
of processors, memory, and operating systems. Students 
learn explicitly about memory organization and hierarchies, 
about context-switching and threads, and about the 
transformations that a high-level program undergoes before 
it is executed on actual hardware. These enable students 
to eliminate obscure "bugs" and to measure and optimize 
program performance. Programming assignments use the C 
programming language. 

SSD7
Database Systems
This course introduces students to database concepts 
including database design. Relational data models are 
emphasized. Students develop client-server applications 
in Java and/or Visual Basic, using commercial database 
management systems. Example applications include e-commerce 
systems. 

SSD8
Networks and Distributed Computing
This course focuses on principles and practices of 
network-based computing. It begins with an overview of 
networking technology in support of data and multimedia 
communication. It continues with application-oriented 
protocols and approaches to distributed object-oriented 
programming using Java. 

SSD9
Software Specification, Testing, and Maintenance
This course focuses on the principles of development of 
software systems following software engineering practices. 
Students work individually or in multi-person teams on 
Internet-based software projects of significant scale, 
acquiring experience in all phases of the software product 
lifecycle. 

SSD10
Software Project Organization and Management
This course focuses on the organizational and management 
aspects of software projects. Students learn techniques of 
project planning, scheduling, costing and organization, from 
an iterative perspective, and examine and critique various kinds 
of planning and management artifacts. A key emphasis is management 
of client issues. 
